When you purchase
an item in a store,
you usually receive a receipt
as a record of purchase.
The receipt breaks down
the transaction information with
details such as
the date and time,
the cashier's name,
the item name,
cost, and the method of payment.
But, not all store
receipts look the same.
For example, receipts like
automotive invoices use
lots of detail when listing
the items or services
that were sold.
You most likely won't find
this much detail from
a restaurant receipt.
Despite the differences
among store receipts,
all receipts contain
important details
that are relevant
to the transaction.
Logs are similar to receipts.
While receipts record purchases,
logs record the events or
activities that happen
on a network or system.
As a security analyst,
you'll be responsible
for interpreting logs.
Logs come in different formats,
so not all logs look the same.
But, they usually contain
information like timestamps,
system characteristics,
like IP addresses,
and a description of
the event, including
the action taken and who
performed the action.
We know that logs can
be generated from
many different data sources
such as network devices,
operating systems, and more.
These log sources generate
logs in different formats.
Some log formats
are designed to be
human-readable while others
are machine-readable.
Some logs can be verbose,
which means they contain
lots of information,
while some are short and simple.
Let's explore some
commonly used log formats.
One of the most commonly
used log formats is Syslog.
Syslog is both a protocol
and a log format.
As a protocol, it
transports and writes logs.
As a log format, it
contains a header,
followed by structured-data,
and a message.
The Syslog entry includes
three sections: a header,
structured-data,
and a message.
The header contains data
fields like Timestamp,
the Hostname, the
Application name,
and the Message ID.
The structured-data
portion contains
additional data information
in key-value pairs.
Here, the eventSource
is a key that
specifies the data
source of the log,
which is the value Application.
Lastly, the message
component contains
the detailed log message
about the event.
In this example, "This is a
log entry!" is the message.
Let's explore another
common log format you
might encounter as
a security analyst.
JavaScript Object Notation,
more popularly known as JSON,
is a text-based format
designed to be easy
to read and write.
It also uses key-value
pairs to structure data.
Here's an example of a JSON log.
The curly brackets represent
the beginning and
end of an object.
The object is the data that's
enclosed between the brackets.
It's organized using
key-value pairs where
each key has a corresponding
value separated by colons.
For example, for the first line,
the key is Alert and
the value is Malware.
JSON is known for its simplicity
and easy readability.
As a security analyst,
you'll use JSON to read
and write data like logs.
eXtensible Markup
Language, or XML,
is a language and a format
used for storing and
transmitting data.
Instead of key-value pairs,
it uses tags and other
keys to structure data.
Here, we have an example of
an XML log entry
with four fields:
firstName, lastName,
employeeID, and dateJoined,
which are separated with arrows.
Finally, Comma Separated
Values, or CSV,
is a format that
uses separators like
commas to separate data values.
In this example, there are
many different data fields which
are separated with commas.
Now that you know about the
diversity of log formats,
you can focus on evaluating logs
to build context
around a detection.
Coming up, you'll explore how
IDS signatures are
used to detect,
log, and alert on
suspicious activity.